---
date: 2022-11-27
is_blog: true
tags: [blender, python, venv, Linux]
---


# Use venv with Blender

Install external packages to the python bundled with blender in a safe way (I believe).

## Problem

Some linux distributions like Ubuntu or Linux Mint have their default python environment that closely works with the OS.
In some cases, using pip directly with blender's bundled python destroys the existing dependency and crash the OS.
(I met a trouble with desktop environment by updating Pillow.)

## My Environment

* Linux mint 21
* Blender 3.3


## Move Blender Python into venv.

To separate the environments, I create a virtual environment of blender's python environment with venv.
It allows us to stay within the familiar way of switching multiple python environments.

* First, rename the existing blender's python as the original environment and keep it separated from blender. I decided to rename it `python-old`.
```sh
mv blender-3.3.1-linux-x64/3.3/python blender-3.3.1-linux-x64/3.3/python-old
```

* Create a new virtual environment (`blender3.3` here). You can create it where you want, but you have to use blender's python.
```sh
blender-3.3.1-linux-x64/3.3/python-old/bin/python3.10 -m venv blender3.3
```

* Copy Blender's python environment.
As blender has different settings from your default environment, you have to copy and overwrite all libraries to the new environment.
Just copy the `python-old/lib` folder and paste under the new `blender3.3/` then merge files.


* Link your environment to Blender.
Create a symlink so Blender can read the virtual environment you created.
```sh
ln -s blender3.3 blender-3.3.1-linux-x64/3.3/python
```

* Check everything work correctly.
	* Blender does not crash.
	* Enter the new environment (`source blender3.3/bin/activate`) and the same version of python is working.
	* Install a new package and you can import it from blender


* **Optional** Add python headers in `include` for C/C++ development.
If you need python headers to develop a python module in C/C++, you can download the source from python release and put them in `python-old/include/python3.10`.
Take care to use the correct version, to place them in the *old* environment, and to keep `pyconfig.h` that may already exists.
Now it can be found in the include path by activating the environment.
